.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH cando-util 1  "cando-util 0.1.0" 
.SH NAME
cando\-util \- CAN Message Encoder \- Encode and transmit J1939 CAN messages from field assignments
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcando\-util\fR [\fB\-\-config\fR] [\fB\-\-environment\fR] [\fB\-\-device\fR] [\fB\-\-device\-id\fR] [\fB\-\-message\fR] [\fB\-\-fields\fR] [\fB\-\-send\-interface\fR] [\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-format\fR] [\fB\-\-template\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fIsubcommands\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
CAN Message Encoder \- Encode and transmit J1939 CAN messages from field assignments
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-config\fR \fI<CONFIG>\fR
Path to cando.yaml configuration file
.TP
\fB\-\-environment\fR \fI<ENVIRONMENT>\fR
Environment to validate (validates only this environment instead of entire config)

When specified, only the devices and configuration relevant to this environment are validated. This avoids validation warnings for unused environments. If not specified, the entire configuration file is validated.
.TP
\fB\-\-device\fR \fI<DEVICE>\fR
Device name from cando.yaml
.TP
\fB\-\-device\-id\fR \fI<DEVICE_ID>\fR
Device ID to embed (hex like 0x8A or decimal) Device identifier to embed in CAN messages

This ID will be embedded as the source address in the CAN message identifier, typically in the lower 8 bits for J1939 compatibility. Valid range is 0\-255 (0x00\-0xFF).
.TP
\fB\-\-message\fR \fI<MESSAGE>\fR
Message name (e.g., EEC1) Name of the CAN message to process

Specifies which message definition to use. The name must match exactly with a generated message type (case\-sensitive). Examples: \- J1939: DM1_DiagnosticMessage, EEC1_ElectronicEngineController1
.TP
\fB\-\-fields\fR \fI<FIELDS>\fR [default: ]
Optional fields as key=value pairs (e.g., "speed=50,status=1") Signal field assignments for the message

Specify signal values using comma\-separated key=value pairs. Field names must match the generated signal names exactly. Values can be integers or floating\-point numbers.
.TP
\fB\-\-send\-interface\fR \fI<SEND_INTERFACE>\fR
Optional: Send the message over this CAN interface (e.g., vcan0) Optional CAN interface for message transmission

If specified, the encoded message will be sent over the given CAN interface. The interface must be available and properly configured (e.g., \*(Aqcan0\*(Aq, \*(Aqvcan0\*(Aq). Use \*(Aqip link show type can\*(Aq to list available CAN interfaces.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR \fI<FORMAT>\fR [default: text]
Output format: text, json, or csv Format for displaying the encoded message and signal values

\- text: Human\-readable format with signal names, values, and units \- json: Structured JSON format suitable for API integration \- csv: Comma\-separated values for spreadsheet analysis
.TP
\fB\-\-template\fR
Generate a template bash script with all message fields and comments

Creates a ready\-to\-edit bash script showing all fields with their ranges, units, and default values. This helps compose messages without memorizing field names or looking up valid ranges.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
cando\-util\-diagnostics(1)
J1939\-73 Diagnostic commands (DM01, DM02, DM03, etc.)
.TP
cando\-util\-list\-devices(1)
List all devices from configuration
.TP
cando\-util\-builder(1)
Interactive message builder (TUI) or quick lookup mode
.TP
cando\-util\-show\-device(1)
Show detailed information about a specific device
.TP
cando\-util\-list\-environments(1)
List all environments from configuration
.TP
cando\-util\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH VERSION
v0.1.0
