.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH cando-codegen 1  "cando-codegen 0.1.0" 
.SH NAME
cando\-codegen \- Generate Rust code from DBC files for CAN\-Do
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcando\-codegen\fR [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] <\fIsubcommands\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
A standalone code generator that transforms CAN DBC files into type\-safe Rust code.
.PP
OVERVIEW:
This tool generates Rust protocol implementations from proprietary DBC (Database CAN) files.
It uses SHA\-256 checksums to intelligently regenerate only when source files change,
following the "C compiler model" \- only recompile what\*(Aqs needed.
.PP
LICENSING MODEL:
\- DBC files: Proprietary (not redistributable)
\- Generated Rust: Derivative work (open\-source, MIT/Apache\-2.0)
\- This enables open\-source distribution without requiring proprietary files
.PP
FOR OPEN\-SOURCE USERS:
You don\*(Aqt need DBC files or this tool! Generated code is already included in the repository.
Just run \*(Aqcargo build\*(Aq normally.
.PP
FOR MAINTAINERS:
Use this tool when you have licensed DBC files and need to regenerate protocol implementations.
Changes are tracked via checksums stored in dbc/.checksums.json
.PP
Set CANDO_DBC_PATH to use DBC files from a different location (default: ./dbc).
.PP
See doc/guide\-codegen\-quick\-ref.md for complete documentation on the code generation workflow.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
cando\-codegen\-generate(1)
Generate code for a specific protocol
.TP
cando\-codegen\-generate\-all(1)
Generate all protocols (only if changed)
.TP
cando\-codegen\-validate(1)
Validate that generated code matches DBC files
.TP
cando\-codegen\-status(1)
Show status of all protocols
.TP
cando\-codegen\-list(1)
List all available protocols
.TP
cando\-codegen\-detect\-changes(1)
Detect algorithm evolution (DBC unchanged, output changed)
.TP
cando\-codegen\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH VERSION
v0.1.0
